---
author: "Monica Trinh"
title: "Revolutionary Tech or Artist’s Nemesis: Personal Thought on AI Art As an Art Doer"
date: "2022-03-10"
tags: 
- tech
- ai
- art
---

    
    
{{< audio src="././assets/audio/0-to-the-moon.mp3" class="audio">}} 


 I recently came across this [Google](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdhEpBRnOwiFI-ieNKKu3Y0KcoFbd_ZWod1LeyoV6EEfY78HA/viewform) survey that tests survey taker ability to differentiate between AI generated art and actual illustrated art by artists. The results ( this data is taken from my mutuals on Twitter and the sample size is not large enough to be taken seriously) suggest that an average person, albeit an artist or enjoyer, can have a 40-50% chance of getting it right on the first try. Some of the most prominent factors that help the differentiating process are the hands, anatomy, and the unflattering flat shading. 
 
 This is fascinating since the popular sentiment seems to be anti-AI art amongst artists across platforms like Twitter or Instagram. The claims appear to be the artists are not giving their consent for the art to be used in model training. This leads to fear of art theft (an interesting case has happened on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/GenelJumalon/status/1580401094454222848?s=20&t=SnHfegipHc8zVEbY6lqXTA) ) and more far-fetched, though not entirely dismissible, ethical issues like rendering creative jobs obsolete.  
 
 Of course, some of these claims inherently are groundless due to the lack of research as well as the haste in judgment, but the populated fear is not entirely unjustifiable. 

{{< tweet user="GenelJumalon" id="1580401094454222848?s=20&t=SnHfegipHc8zVEbY6lqXTA" >}}

First, let’s start by addressing some of the misconceptions about AI art-generated models. I was never a skeptic about bringing technological changes into art but even I settled on the easy deduction that the generated model must have scraped the internet and glued together titbits of the input prompts to generate these images. That’s couldn’t be farther away from reality. I’m certain I’m not an expert on this topic so I included a [Vox](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVcsDDABEkM&t=712s&ab_channel=Vox) video explaining the tech in highly engaging visualizers to better explain the scope of this technology. 

{{< youtube SVcsDDABEkM  >}}



    (TL;DR: the model is given a data set, the inputs (features) are then plotted in multi-dimensional space to determine an accurate model; the goal is to train it to recognize pixels and form coherent objects when being asked of output - for so, the same prompt will never generate the same image)

Now we have gained more of an insight into what actually goes behind the hyper-complex model that causes companies billions on, let’s discuss why the general art community is so vehemently against it, despite public enthusiasm. I’d argue the main reason was as humans, we are biologically programmed to be averse to environmental changes, in other words, stepping out of the “knowns”.

 In nature, this is effective due to our fight or flight mechanism that has protected us against dangers which thankfully? have prolonged humanity til this day. But sometimes, humanity, in spite of all our shortcomings and foolishness, makes leaps and bounds by taking the first step toward the unknowns. From there, all sorts of wondrous creations like fire and electricity have taken shape to construct our civilization. 

(... to be written?)

    Disclaimer: Blogs are just my personal stream of thoughts. I apologize in advance for any inaccuracies in data, facts and grammar. Opinions are my own (you shouldn’t spend too much time reading about what a 17 yo have to say anyways~)




Song Credit: To the Moon - hooligan (music were chosen as I was writing this article)